.TH WMCLOCKMON\-CAL "1" "February 2004" "wmclockmon-cal " "User Commands"


.SH NAME
wmclockmon\-cal \- A calendar to use with wmclockmon


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wmclockmon\-cal [\-h] [\-v]


.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B wmclockmon\-cal
command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBwmclockmon\-cal\fP is a program that displays a calendar and TODO list
with wmclockmon.
.PP
A calendar/TODO list can contain special lines that will be taken as alarms
for \fBwmclockmon\fP. An alarm line MUST begin with an @, then contain the time
(hours and minutes un 24h format) and, at least, the message, such as :
.TP
@ 09:20 Prepare for RDV hairdresser at 9:30...


.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options
starting with two dashes (`\-'). A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h,  \-\-help
show help text and exit.
.TP
.B \-v,  \-\-version
show program version and exit.


.SH FILE
.B wmclockmon\-cal
uses files in ~/.wmclockmoncal/. Each file contain a day's TODO list. Calendar
files are all in form of yyyy-mm-dd. Yearly files are in form of XXXX-mm-dd
and monthly files are in form of XXXX-XX-dd. There are currently no weekly
files since weekly alarms are in wmclockmon's configuration file.


.SH SEE ALSO
wmclockmon(1), wmclockmon-config(1)


.SH AUTHOR
WMClockMon\-cal was written by Thomas Nemeth <tnemeth@free.fr>.
